>> Erik Reinert: So we've created our
bastion file, we've created our locals
file, our main file, our output,
our security group and our variables file.
Awesome.
Now the last thing we want to do is
we actually want to use this module.
We just created it.
Now I want to provision a whole
bunch of stuff with it.
If I do it in the main
at the root repository,
I'm outside of my staging module, which
means that if I copy this and paste it,
I won't get that network
module inside of it.
I'll have to copy and
paste the network module too.
So what I want to do is I actually want
to do the whole module inside of a module
scenario.
And so what we're going to do is, is we're
actually going to go into environment,
go to that blank main TF file, and
then I'm going to add my first module,
which is my network module.
And so if I reopen this really quickly,
you'll see that I again,
I use module, I say network, right?
The source is directory up network, right.
So I'm literally referencing a directory.
Then you'll see here,
it's the variables that I provided before.
Now again, to go back to your question,
this is hard coded, meaning that again,
if I take that environment,
the higher level environment module,
and I copy and paste it and I create a new
network or I create a new environment,
then those two environments
will have the exact same CIDRs.
But if I wanted to, and again, I don't do
this, but if I wanted to, I could do this.
I could say variable cider.
Okay, thanks for
not helping me at all, copilot.
And then, we'll say like type string.
And then, if I go here, now what I
can do is I can say, var cider here,
and then go up a level to where I have
that whole like high level composability.
And then here I would
say cider equals this.
And then I'd be like, okay,
well I know I use this on staging.
So now when I go to create prod,
right, I want to use 100.
And now I've created
two separate networks.
But the only thing I needed
to change was the cider.
And that's a higher level
value in the environment, so
I can just easily change that.
And then bam,
everything's mapped up and ready to go.
So if you were in a scenario where
you had to do something like that,
that's basically how you would make it
really easy to give multiple CIDRs to
multiple networks.
Let me go ahead and
delete that really quickly though.
10.0.0.16.
That is missing a dot zero.
All right, so we're doing that,
we'll get rid of the cider here.
We don't need that.
Now we have our very first
problem that we're trying to
solve inside of our environment.
Again, this isn't just a module, but
it's a solution to something that we need,
which is an entire network
that should come out of it.
Now, what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna go to the top level,
I'm gonna do Terraform in
it again because, why?
Because I created a whole
bunch of modules, right?
So once I do Terraform Init, it's going
to go out and then you'll see, look,
now it's even adding more stuff, right?
And it even went out onto the Internet and
made sure that it downloaded anything that
I was using remotely, like any remote
modules or anything like that, right?
Now when I run Terraform Plan, I should
actually have like some resources.
So let's do Terraform Plan.
Okay?
And so
remember how I told you that if I didn't
update that value, it would fail?
Well, it did, so let me quickly grab
the IP address of here and
plan, so there we go.
You can see that Terraform is now saying,
hey, I've got a whole bunch of resources.
And actually for the three or
four modules that we used,
look at how many resources it's creating.
You would have had to do that all
yourself if you hadn't used a module.
So even though we used like three or
four modules,
we're getting 63 resources created,
which is a lot, right?
Like that's actually crazy.
So if I scrolled up to this, which I'm not
gonna scroll up too far because I don't
want to dox the IP address I just added.
But for example, look at this subnet,
the public subnet.
Do you see how it automatically calculated
the address as well as the CIDR to it 21.
So it's 176.21,
that's everything that that subnet module
I was telling you about before is doing.
It's going out looking at my CIDR base of
10.0.0.16 and then saying, okay, cool.
Well, you told me you want 500 IPs.
Great.
Well this is from there to here.
This is the address space that
you can have to calculate.
So again, it's really nice and
it's really easy.
Use something like that to do it.
Now that we have a plan we are actually in
the situation where we're ready to apply.
I'm going to do Terraform Apply.
And off we go, we should start
provisioning, there you go.
We're now provisioning our network.
Now this is going to take a little while,
so if we want we can go ahead and
pause here and
let everything get provisioned.
But basically what you're
seeing now is Terraform.
Go through the process of creating
everything in, in my environment.
And you can see, yeah, it's creating
security groups, it's creating route
tables, it's creating VPCs, it's creating
every subnets, everything we need.
But the thing I want you to note is
look at the naming convention module,
staging module, network module,
vpc awsroutetable.
Da, da, da, da.
Another thing that's really
nice about composing things in
modules is it isolates
the resources really, really well.
And once you get really comfortable with
writing modules, the naming conventions
kind of really show you exactly where and
what they're provisioning.
So in this case,
if we were looking at this and
I was just like looking at it
head on first, I would go, okay,
well we're provisioning, networking
stuff inside of the staging environment.
Awesome.
So that naming convention can
actually be helpful as well,
just knowing where everything is and
what it is.
But yeah,
we have created our first module or
our first like part of
our new infrastructure.